Initial Nixhub docs (#2186)
jetify-com/devbox: docs/app/docs/nixhub/index.mdx

hide_title: true
custom_edit_url: null
---

import ApiLogo from "@theme/ApiLogo";
import Heading from "@theme/Heading";
import SchemaTabs from "@theme/SchemaTabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Export from "@theme/ApiExplorer/Export";
import DocCardList from "@theme/DocCardList";

<span
  className={"theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--secondary"}
  children={"Version: 2.0.0"}
>
</span>

# Using the Nixhub API

The Nixhub API lets you search over 1 million package versions for over 100,000 Nix packages. You can use the Nixhub API to search for packages, resolve historic versions, and then install them using Devbox or Nix. Nixhub is designed to be simple and easy to use, and is free to use for personal use. 

Nixhub is a RESTful API that uses standard HTTP methods and status codes. Parameters are passed to the API as query parameters, and the API returns JSON responses. The current version does not make use of pagination, though this may be added in the future.

Nixhub exposes the following endpoints for searching and resolving packages:

- `v2/search` - Search for packages by name
- `v2/pkg` - Get details and version history for a specific package

> - `v2/resolve` - Resolve the latest available package for a given name and version string. 

Reviewer: Maybe this should be a bit more specific? Somemthing like:

```suggestion
- `v2/resolve` - Resolve a package name and version to a nixpkgs commit and attribute path.
```
